# Foreword by the compiler (Wyatt S Carpenter)

Hello and welcome to _Terror Island_, the comic from <http://www.terrorisland.net> by Ben Heaton and Lewis Powell; the book. I guess that technically makes this a graphic novel.

**Important note:** If this is your first time reading Terror Island, I softly recommend skipping the notes the first time. While the notes are great, you'll be able to speed through the comic breezily the first time, and on subsequent reads you can enjoy the notes as well. This is not an imperative suggestion; if you feel like reading the notes, go ahead. OK, now that you've read this **important note**, you can proceed to the book or continue reading this foreword, according to your whim. (As a side note, I'm fairly certain that Ben's Notes on Strip 1, which is written as though it's retrospective, was actually written concurrently with the production of the strip, as a joke. The notes were added, as best I can tell, the day the strips went up, and not retroactively.)

I made this book version of _Terror Island_ for my own personal use and enjoyment. I didn't want any money or to have to get in contact with the original authors. However, this does mean that the book is not as good as it could be. Specifically, the images are small, and therefore don't look as good as they could (Ben's annotation on Strip #317 implies there are higher-quality photos hoarded, and possibly higher-quality entire strips?). The front cover I made for this book is deliberately too-low-resolution (TODO: I now feel this was ultimately a poor decision, and will later undo it. also while I'm at it, credit the authors bigger on the cover), to match the (horizontal) resolution of the images within (thus avoiding "false promise"). Also, I didn't try very hard on making every aspect of the book look good — actually, I did try pretty hard, but then I got tired.

I feel like the images in the book could have been upscaled with a better algorithm? I suspect calibre just uses nearest-neighbor, when instead bilinear or bicubic or lanczos is better, and that's why the images look slightly poorer than they have to. Or maybe not!

This copy of this book has every possible Terror Island image (I boldly claim, whatever that means), missing only a "crazy Batman-related discover\[y]" image in the commentary of #128 that is lost to time as far as I can tell.

This edition contains the "title text" of each strip, which would normally appear on hover on the website, as italic text underneath the comic.

Each strip also had an "alt text" ("title text" is sometimes mistakenly called "alt text", but the two are different in html) that would display if the comic image would not load: "it's hard to appreciate this comic strip without seeing it". I haven't manually checked if this is on every strip but it seems most likely. I do not display this alt text in the book, because all of the comic's images have in fact loaded 🤷.

Another interesting aspect of this book is that I've included all of the about pages, etc, as front matter. This includes a page "strips/index.html", titled "_Terror Island_ Archives", which is apparently a table of contents of the comic — and continues the joke of the comic being logically necessary, as it is formatted as though it is the table of contents of a work of mathematical proofs. The construction of this, "some archives", is mentioned in Lewis's Notes for #119. However, it seems like the authors (probably just Lewis, in all likelihood; he seems like the only one involved with this part) forgot about this page eventually, so it only goes until strip 30. (I suppose this also explains why it's not linked to in the navigation menu. "I'll add the navigation button to the page template when I get the archives up to date.") I occasionally have considered producing a "compiler's index" to complete this project, with things like "31. Bee: Ghosts Of Departed Bitterness", "55. Czar: The Chinese Remainder Theorem", "78. Demon: The Grocery Exclusion Principle", and so on. (Possibly I would just extend the current archive, with a note that everything below the indicated line was written by the compiler instead of the authors. In the book, but not the unaltered mirror.) This would be fun, but time-consuming, so so far I have elected not to.

In the Notes for #4, Lewis "LP" Powell writes, "Unrelatedly, I am trying to get people to use a nickname for me, so, if you could start referring to me and introducing me as “LP” that’d be pretty cool." In the Notes for #7 he writes "Firstly, you’ll note I changed it back to “Lewis” from “LP”. That’s because who was I really kidding? No one. That’s who. I am teflon when it comes to nicknames." I think these imply that between strips #4 (or possibly #5?) and #6, inclusive, "Lewis's Notes" should be called "LP's Notes" instead. However, I think these were changed in the template of the website itself, instead of per-webpage(?), so this change could only be witnessed in real time, being changed back latter. There isn't an early enough archive of terrorisland.net or waxintellectual.com (the original host url of _Terror Island_) to see this change, so I'm not sure whether #4 should be included by this change. I'm going to go with no, because I think the comedic potential is greater that way. (Although, I could see the argument for going with yes to be funnier.) I've also manually made the change myself in the book edition (but not the unaltered mirror that the book is built from). TODO: actually do that.

An earlier version of the site had a "Contact" button in the site navigation bar. This was eventually incorporated into the "About" page instead, although the old Contact page still exists. Not having any particular reason to deviate from the current-day navigation bar for the mirror and book, I have not included the Contact button. If you're dying to know what it looked like, I've left a free-floating copy of the png in the mirror folder. You can also imagine its letters from the letters of the other buttons (capital C from Cast, o from Forum, n from Main, t from About, a from Main again, c from &c., and t again from Cast again).

There are no page numbers in this book, because all of the strips are numbered anyway, and these numbers are used for references by everything else, and where pages aren't numbered (the front-matter) they are titled and largely alphabetical, so the page numbers would just be confusing and off-by-30 and waste space.

The code, and other things, to make this book can be found at <https://github.com/wyattscarpenter/terrorisland>.

The concept of calling this "Terror Island (The Comic) (The Book)" is metrically derived from _Twitter: The Comic (The Book)_, the book collection of the comic _Twitter: The Comic_, which is adaptations of great tweets into comic strips. However, unlike the _Twitter: The Comic_, the "The Comic" in  "Terror Island (The Comic)" is not a mark of adaptation but a disambiguator, merely there to distinguish it from all the other things out there titled "Terror Island". For example, if this were, say, a comics adaption of the **film** _Terror Island_ (1920), I would call it "Terror Island: The Comic". And then, in both cases, the "(The Book)" is in parens because that step isn't really an adaptation so much as it is just an alternative presentation in which to enjoy the exact same content. This isn't really germane to anything, because this foreword is about _Terror Island_ and not about _Twitter: The Comic_, but I want to mention that the song for the commercial for _Twitter: The Comic (The Book)_ is very good. Since the commercial is titled "Twitter The Comic (The Book) – The Trailer", <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IktnlZmK6zU>, the song is called "Twitter The Comic (The Book) – The Trailer (The Song)" in my personal musical collection. I'm not sure if the song has an official name. Presumably, if it does, I've rederived exactly the same name independently, compelled by pure reason.

I've also enabled the calibre option to "smarten punctuation", especially noticeable in the quotes, which are now curvy instead of straight.

I printed physical copies of the pdf using Amazon KDP. The physical size of this book (trim size) is almost (almost!) USA trade paperback size, 6×9 inches. However, it is actually 6.12×9 inches, because Amazon KDP charges you regular price for printing until you get to "(More than 6.12 inches (155.5 mm) in width or more than 9 inches (228.6 mm) in height)" <https://kdp.amazon.com/en_US/help/topic/G201834340>. The bigger the book the better when you're trying to display pictures and also they charge by page. I also went with standard color, because I assume the poor resolution of these images would mean the higher ink quality (?) would be wasted on these images. Which means the print cost was $1.00+0.027×page, or approximately $11 to $12 per copy. The book was printed without bleed, because we don't actually need that. In order to get amazon to automatically deal with the margins for me (margins are mandatory, probably due to an inevitable level of manufacturing imprecision), I actually generate the pdf with no margins at the size of the page minus the margins, and then use the online option in the previewer to "scale" to the permitted size (this does what it says and also places/fits/arranges you into the margins automatically, instead of having to deal with calibre's quite-involved margin options). So, 6.12×9 is the trim size, not the printable area size. You actually need to subtract 0.25 inches for each outside edge and 0.625 inch inside (for our page count; see <https://kdp.amazon.com/en_US/help/topic/GVBQ3CMEQW3W2VL6>. So, we use a printable area of 6.12-0.875 by 9-.50, or, that is, 5.245 by 8.5 inch. (nb: this is remarkably close to a5 paper, but is not in fact a5). So, that's why this pdf is a weird shape. Sorry!

If you've modified this edition somehow, you can include a description of how below this line.
